Abram, dinner is almost ready.
Please tell Shem.
We’ll be right there, Mom.
Well, Abram, before we go in,
let me tell you the rest.
I was just a young man back then.
After Jehovah gave my father
the command to build the ark,
it took decades to complete.
Then we had to gather food and all the animals.
We had no idea how long we would be inside.
But when Jehovah closed the ark’s door,
we were ready.
So were you scared?
Abram, I know you’re just a boy,
but things have happened to you
that have scared you, right?
Uh-huh.
I was older than you, but I was still scared.
When we were building the ark,
people thought we were crazy.
And then, just like Jehovah said it would,
it happened.
Only eight were saved
—my parents, my brothers, and our wives.
We were living proof that Jehovah’s word never fails.
Jehovah promised my father
that He would never again destroy all life
with a global Flood.
I want you to know I was scared,
but I know to trust Jehovah.
When Jehovah promises something
that we’ve never seen,
it takes a special quality to believe it.
Do you know what that quality is?
Faith.
Abram and Sarai lived in Ur,
a city full of people who worshipped pagan gods.
But like Noah and Shem,
Abram and Sarai worshipped Jehovah.
Abram.
Abram, go out from your land
and from your relatives
and come into the land that I will show you.
Where will we live?
We’ll be so far away from our family.
I have every confidence
that if we do what Jehovah asks,
things will turn out fine.
Well,
wherever it is, I will be by your side.
There is nothing I wouldn’t sacrifice for Jehovah.
I know. I know.
Abram and Sarai left Ur.
They lived in Haran for some time,
but Jehovah told Abram to keep moving.
Living in tents was not easy,
but the caravan gradually settled
into a routine of travel.
Abram’s nephew Lot was like a brother to him.
But as their flocks grew large,
tension grew between their groups.
Please, there should be
no quarreling between me and you,
for we are brothers.
Is not the whole land available to you?
Please, separate from me.
If you go to the left,
then I will go to the right.
Though it must have hurt their hearts,
they agreed to part ways.
Lot moved east to the district of the Jordan
where the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah
were located.
After Lot had gone,
Jehovah made a promise about Abram’s future.
Raise your eyes, please,
and look from the place where you are,
to the north and south,
east and west,
because all the land that you see,
I will give to you and your offspring
as a lasting possession.
And I will make your offspring
like the dust particles of the earth.
Abram.
Do not fear, Abram.
I am a shield for you.
Your reward will be very great.
Sovereign Lord Jehovah,
what will you give me,
seeing that I continue childless?
Go outside.
Look up, please,
to the heavens and count the stars,
if you are able to do so.
So your offspring will become.
Later, Jehovah changed Abram’s name
to Abraham,
which means “Father of a Multitude.”
He also changed Sarai’s name to Sarah,
which means “Princess.”
Every day, these new names
would remind them of Jehovah’s promise.
And Jehovah didn’t stop there.
He sent three angels to reassure Abraham
with even more good news.
Within the year, he and Sarah would have a son.
But they also brought other news.
Through one of the angels, Jehovah said:
The outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah
is indeed great,
and their sin is very heavy.
Will you really sweep away the righteous with the wicked?
Suppose there are 50 righteous men within the city.
Will you, then, sweep them away
and not pardon the place for the sake
of the 50 righteous who are inside it?
It’s unthinkable of you.
Will the Judge of all the earth not do what is right?
If I find in Sodom 50 righteous men in the city,
I will pardon the whole place for their sake.
Please, here I presume to speak to Jehovah,
whereas I am dust and ashes.
Suppose the 50 righteous should lack five.
Because of the five will you destroy the whole city?
Abraham knew that the Judge of all the earth
always does what is right.
But knowing and trusting
are two different things.
I will not destroy it for the sake of the 20.
Jehovah, please, do not become hot with anger,
but let me speak just once more:
Suppose only ten are found there.
I will not destroy it for the sake of the ten.
I have seen in my life that everything
that Jehovah promises always comes true.
Throughout your life have full confidence
that Jehovah will always do what is right.